Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.3 RH134
Red Hat System Administration II
Edition 1 20240717
Publication date 20240717
Authors:
Ashish Lingayat, Alejandra Ramírez Palacios, Alex Callejas,
Antonio Marí Romero, Bernardo Gargallo, Dallas Spohn, Ed Parenti,
Jacob Pelchat, Mike Kelly, Morgan Weetman, Patrick Gomez,
Shreya Dhange
Course Architects:
Philip Sweany, Steven Bonneville
DevOps Engineers:
Artur Glogowski, Trey Feagle
Editors:
Julian Cable, Rachel Lee
© 2024 Red Hat, Inc.
The contents of this course and all its modules and related materials, including handouts to audience members, are ©
2024 Red Hat, Inc.
No part of this publication may be stored in a retrieval system, transmitted or reproduced in any way, including, but
not limited to, photocopy, photograph, magnetic, electronic or other record, without the prior written permission of
Red Hat, Inc.
This instructional program, including all material provided herein, is supplied without any guarantees from Red Hat,
Inc. Red Hat, Inc. assumes no liability for damages or legal action arising from the use or misuse of contents or details
contained herein.
If you believe Red Hat training materials are being used, copied, or otherwise improperly distributed, please send
email to training@redhat.com [mailto:training@redhat.com] or phone toll-free (USA) +1 (866) 626-2994 or +1 (919)
754-3700.
Red Hat, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, OpenShift, Fedora, Hibernate, Ansible, RHCA, RHCE,
RHCSA, Ceph, and Gluster are trademarks or registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United
States and other countries.
Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries.
Java® is a registered trademark of Oracle American, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
XFS® is a registered trademark of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP or its subsidiaries in the United
States and/or other countries.
MySQL® is a registered trademark of MySQL AB in the United States, the European Union and other countries.
Node.js® is a trademark of Joyent. Red Hat is not formally related to or endorsed by the official Joyent Node.js open
source or commercial project.
The OpenStack word mark and the Square O Design, together or apart, are trademarks or registered trademarks
of OpenStack Foundation, in the United States and other countries and are used with the OpenStack Foundation's
permission. Red Hat, Inc. is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by the OpenStack Foundation or the
OpenStack community.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Contributors:Adarsh Krishnan, David Sacco, Hemant Chauhan, Jonika Shank, Roberto Velazquez,
Sajith Eyamkuzhy, Samik Sanyal, Shashi Singh, Yuvaraj Balaraju
